So welcome back, guys.
Now let us discuss the concept of block splitting.
Now, let us suppose that the falling figure represents the snapshot of the heap memory segment as above.
Right now, what should happen if Brussels issued a new request to claim another 10 bites of memory
from the operating system?
So our mallock function should search the block from the list, which could satisfy the request of 10
bytes?
Right.
So our Malac function should iterate over this list and find the block which is free and should be able
to satisfy the request of size 10 bytes.
Such a block is a block which is pointed by this pointer, right?
So common sense says that the block, which is pointed by a pointer two, should be used again.
To assign 10 bytes of memory, right?
And why, because this blog is at least as big, which can satisfy the request of 10 bytes and this
block is free.
And after allocating 10 bytes of memory, the remaining 20 bytes should still be maintained as free
block and the block list, right.
So we achieved this by splitting the 30 block into two blocks.
One block will be done by it.
And it is this block of memory which will be returned to the process for use and another block will
be of 20 bytes.
Certain byte block should be marked as false because it is in use by the process and 20 byte block should
be marked as free.
Right.
So let us see that what will be the changes in the snapshot of this memory segment when this 30 byte
of three data block is split into 10 by 10 and 20 by data block?
So going forward, so now let us split this 30 byte of data block, so the heat memory segment after
the split of this 30 byte of data block would look something like this.
So you can just focus on this part of this heat memory segment.
So you can see that this 30 byte of data block is a splintered into this 10 by block.
Right.
And how much memory is remaining, the 20 byte now distant part of memory has to be maintained as free
memory.
So remember, for each block, you also need a memory to maintain a mental block.
And mental block is a fixed size or size 12 bytes.
So out of these 20 bytes of memory, the 12 bytes goes to the mental block and the remaining eight bytes
is maintained as a free data block.
Right.
So this mental block will keep information about this data block.
And you can see that this bullying flag is set to true, whereas this bullying flag is set to once.
So this is how block is splitting is done.
So total number of blocks in the Hebrew memory is increased from five to six in the block list, right.
My log function should be enhanced to split the block large enough to provide the requested memory.
Right.
So Armel function choose to split the study bytes of data blocks, because after splitting, we can
easily satisfy the request of 10 bytes of memory.
So just for simplicity, I am ignoring taking care of for alignment, right?
Let's not discuss the alignment in this discussion.
Now, I ask you one analysis question.
If the process issues too many Mallak request for X where X values are small in small means two, four,
six, eight, three, one and so on.
So you can see that if process issues request for memory of very small sizes, that it will lead to
the creation of too many mental blocks in the memory segment.
We already know that the size of the mental block is of size 12 bytes.
You are using 12 bites of memory to keep track of two bytes of requested data block.
Right.
Similarly, you are again using 12 bytes of memory to keep track of another four parts of this data
block.
Right.
Similarly, you are again using 12 bytes of memory to keep track of the six bytes of data block and
so on.
So it means that in the Heat memory segment, you are using more memory to keep track of a memory which
is assigned to a process.
So you can see that in this example, thirty six bytes of memory.
Is used by the matter blocks, where is only 12 bytes of memory is used by the data block, that is
two plus four plus six.
So this is something which you would not like to do, right, instead of using the heat memory for useful
purpose by the process, we are using most of the portion of the heat memory for keeping track of the
memory which is assigned to the process.
So it is a bad programming practice to issue law calls to the operating system.
For smaller chunks of memory such as these, and now we know the reason behind it.